Feature/pinning file support (#22)
ynput/ayon-usd: Docs/Ayon_Docs/Dev_Docs.md

# Developer Docs

Most important Locations.

1. config
   - provides general addon config and a list of variables and functions to
     access settings across the addon.
   - also allows to get lakeFs related classes and functions in there global
     state
2. hooks
   - Ayon + Pyblish related addons and hooks.
3. standalone
   - AyonUsd standalone tools. They should be DCC agnostic.
4. utils
   - utility functions to make interaction with the addon simpler.

## Standalone

### Pinning Support.

`Standalone/Usd/pinning/pinning_file_helper.py`

The Ayon Usd resolver has a feature we call pinning support.\
This allows storing the current resolver state for an Usd stage in a file to
load the frozen stage without server interaction.

`generate_pinning_file`\
creates a pinning file JSON from a given USD stage

```py
def generate_pinning_file(

>     entry_usd: str, root_info: Dict[str, str], pinning_file_path: str

Reviewer: `entry_usd` sounds to me like it accepts a USD identifier. Is that correct, does this also work on in-memory layers by their identifiers? :) I suppose it would?

Author: The short answer is if `.Resolve()` can resolve it. It should work because it's a layer and not a stage or something else. 

But generating a pinning file with an in-memory layer would be a bad idea. You would not get an entry point defined in the pinning, and so you would not be able to enter the stage in an excellent programmatic way. 
It's one of those cases where I have to say A: I did not test it, and B: it defies the tool's point as you try to generate a pinning file for a LayerFile. 

But we do allow URI and, in general, everything the resolver can handle.

PS: We use Ar.GetResolver() to get the resolver to this, which should work for non-AYON resolvers. 

It's all theory, tho. 
If you need this setup for something

Reviewer: Was just wondering whether this argument is technically a filepath to a USD file existing on disk or a USD layer identifier.

### Pinning Support.

`Standalone/Usd/pinning/pinning_file_helper.py`

The Ayon Usd resolver has a feature we call pinning support.\
This allows storing the current resolver state for an Usd stage in a file to
load the frozen stage without server interaction.

`generate_pinning_file`\
creates a pinning file JSON from a given USD stage

```py
def generate_pinning_file(
    entry_usd: str, root_info: Dict[str, str], pinning_file_path: str
):
```

Example Code:

```py
import os
import ayon_api
from ayon_usd.standalone.usd.pinning import pinning_file_helper

in_usd_file = "/path/to/usd/file.usd"
root_info = ayon_api.get_project_roots_for_site(os.environ.get("AYON_PROJECT_NAME"))

pinning_file_helper.generate_pinning_file(in_usd_file, root_info, "/path/to/output_file.json")
```

> `in_usd_file` can be everything that the AyonUsdResolver can resolve including
> an URI its just important to know that what ever you use as the input must be
> the input when you load the usd.\
> in other words: if you use an uri to generate the pinning file you need to open
> the stage with the same uri, if you use an file path you will need to do the
> same.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning USD file entrypoint URI versus filepath
The `in_usd_file` can be anything that the AyonUsdResolver can resolve, including
an AYON URI. However, it is important to know that whatever you use as the input must be
the input when you load the usd.\
In other words: if you use an URI to generate the pinning file you need to open
the stage with the same URI, whereas if you use an file path you will need to do the
same.\
:::
```

This may make this stand out more.

However, I wasn't aware that this is so crucial - what does this influence in the resulting pinning file? Shouldn't a file being opened contain the exact same internal mappings no matter whether it was opened as direct file path or as AYON URI?

Does the pinning file also contain the entry file itself as mapping? Seems a bit odd maybe.

Author: well, yes, the file will contain the same. 
but let's say you open a stage like this 

```
Usd.Stage.Open(ayon_uri)
```
vs 
```
Usd.Stage.Open(path_on_disk)
```

Everything in the scene is the same, but not everything in the stage. The entry path to the Stage is a Uri in the first example and an os path in the second one, so the resolver will be asked to resolve different things to open the stage. 

This is why we must open the USD with the same path used to generate it. 

The path is cached, so what it contains is not essential. If it were a Linux path, the resolver could still resolve it. but i wanted to write down that its better to use an URI just for best practice. 

and in general everything that the resolver gets asked to resolve must be in the pinning file with the current logic. This includes everything you use to construct the stage.

Author: Just for your info. 
it really can be anything; it could even just the random characters like this `sdkjhsfkjshfkjsdhfksjdfh`

Reviewer: > The path is cached, so what it contains is not essential. If it were a Linux path, the resolver could still resolve it. but i wanted to write down that its better to use an URI just for best practice.

Hmm,.... well. Uhm, no. I understand, but for farm pinning the file to be rendered is usually an intermediate USD file that is _not_ published. It's just there for the lifetime of actually being able to render it. In that regard it's a workfile, and usually does not have a representation nor AYON URI.

At least, that's how currently the farm jobs work for USD renders in Houdini. And also how e.g. previously IFD (checkpoints for Mantra?) etc. would be exported and rendered on the farm.

So, in that case - the entry point to render would not be available as AYON URI.

Also - the way I understand, whether I access the file using UNC path or as local filepath or in some other way as a filepath technically _does not_ alter anything with regards to the resolving behavior and hence doesn't generate issues? So it's only, use either a filepath OR a AYON URI in both cases.. it's not about that the filepath used must be the exact same set of characters to open the file?

it is generally advised to use an URI as they will never have any system
specific data in them.\

> The generated pinning file also has a key that will tell you what entry point as
> used to generate the pinning file. you can simply read out this key and use it
> to open a stage with the pinning file `ayon_pinning_data_entry_sceene`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated pinning file also has a key that will tell you what entry point was
used to generate the pinning file. You can simply read out this key and use it
to open a stage with the pinning file `ayon_pinning_data_entry_scene`.
```
